DOCSP-39700 Write Delete Operations (#36)
mongodb/docs-java-rs: source/tutorials/write-delete-documents.txt

.. Subscriber Methods
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Delete Operations
-----------------

You can perform delete operations in MongoDB by using the following methods:

- ``deleteOne()``, which deletes *the first document* that matches the search criteria
- ``deleteMany()``, which deletes *all documents* that match the search criteria

Each delete method requires a **query filter**, which specifies the
search criteria that determine which documents to select for removal.
For more information about query filters, see the 
:manual:`Query Filter Documents section </core/document/#query-filter-documents>` in
the MongoDB Server manual.

Delete One Document
-------------------

To delete a single document from a MongoDB collection, use the static
``Mono.from`` method from the ``Mono`` ``Publisher`` to call the ``deleteOne()``
method and pass in your query filter. 

The following example deletes a document from the ``restaurants`` collection
with a ``name`` value of ``"Ready Penny Inn"``:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   Mono.from(restaurants.deleteOne(eq("name", "Ready Penny Inn"))).block();

Delete Multiple Documents
-------------------------

> To delete a single document from a MongoDB collection, use the static

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete multiple documents from a MongoDB collection, use the static
```

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``sample_restaurants.restaurants`` collection
from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. 

.. TODO:
.. Once get started ticket merged in, link the get started tutorial below

.. To learn how to create a
.. free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
.. :ref:`<java-rs-getting-started>` tutorial.

.. TODO: When write insert methods merged in, add subscriber methods section includes within subscriber methods section

.. Subscriber Methods
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Delete Operations
-----------------

You can perform delete operations in MongoDB by using the following methods:

- ``deleteOne()``, which deletes *the first document* that matches the search criteria
- ``deleteMany()``, which deletes *all documents* that match the search criteria

Each delete method requires a **query filter**, which specifies the
search criteria that determine which documents to select for removal.
For more information about query filters, see the 
:manual:`Query Filter Documents section </core/document/#query-filter-documents>` in
the MongoDB Server manual.

Delete One Document
-------------------

> To delete a single document to a MongoDB collection, call the ``DeleteOne()``

Reviewer: Based on the rest of the page I assume the correct method name is in camelCase?

```suggestion
To delete a single document to a MongoDB collection, call the ``deleteOne()``
```

method and pass in your query filter. After you call the

> ``insertOne()`` method, chain the ``subscribe()`` method and pass in a subscriber.

Reviewer: Would a brief explanation of subscribers be helpful here? Not sure if this concept is introduced anywhere else in these docs. If subscribers are a common concept in async Java we expect readers to know then maybe not.

Author: I have a todo above where I will (when the write insert methods page is merged in) add a includes about subscribers and then link to a more in depth page about the concept of subscribers:

`TODO: When write insert methods merged in, add subscriber methods section includes within subscriber methods section

.. Subscriber Methods
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`

This would be above delete operations!

         fields </reference/command/delete/#command-fields>` guide in the
         MongoDB Server manual for more information.

   * - ``comment (String comment)``
     - | A comment to attach to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`delete command
         fields </reference/command/delete/#command-fields>` guide in the
         MongoDB Server manual for more information.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following code uses the ``deleteMany()`` method to delete all documents in
the ``restaurants`` collection with a ``name`` value that includes the string ``"Mongo"``.
It also uses the ``comment`` method to add a comment to the operation:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    ObservableSubscriber <DeleteResult> deleteManySubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
    restaurants.deleteMany(regex("name", "Mongo"), new DeleteOptions().comment("Deleting Mongo restaurants")).subscribe(deleteManySubscriber);
    deleteManySubscriber.await();

.. Additional Information
----------------------

.. TODO:
.. For runnable code examples of inserting documents with {+driver-short+}, see

> .. :ref: ADD HERE

Reviewer: Is this an artifact of when you were creating the page or actually work to be done in later tickets? No problem leaving here if the latter.

Author: Actual work to be done in later tickets! This will be done after I have a page of runnable code examples.
